add additional HW design rules (#100)
EdgeTX/edgetx.github.io: docs/Radio-hardware-specifications-for-EdgeTX.md

# Hardware Requirements for EdgeTX

## Support of STM32F MCUs

> * we will not accept new radios based no STM32F2 MCUs<

Reviewer: STM32F2 MCUs will not be supported anymore for new radios.

> ## Support of STM32F MCUs
> * we will not accept new radios based no STM32F2 MCUs<

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Support of STM32F MCUs
* As of EdgeTX v2.10, no new radios with STM32F2 MCUs will be accepted.
```

> * we will not accept new radios with STM32F4 MCUs from EdgeTX v2.12 or EdgeTX v3 onwards (whichever comes first)

Reviewer: From EdgeTX v3 onwards, no new radios with STM32F MCUs will be supported.

> * we will not accept new radios with STM32F4 MCUs from EdgeTX v2.12 or EdgeTX v3 onwards (whichever comes first)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* As of EdgeTX v3.0, no new radios based on STM32F MCUs will be accepted. 
```

>   * except radios that have been announced to the EdgeTX team before that release

Reviewer: (I would suggest to omit the exception)

## Color screen radios

### Mandatory hardware features (color)
* MCU: presently only STM32F429BI and STM32F439BI with 2 MB flash are supported. Running at 168 MHz.

>   Support for STM32F7/H7/H7R MCUs is planned from EdgeTX v3 or v2.11 onwards, whereas H750 and H7R will be the first supported H7 MCUs.

Reviewer: Support for STM32F7/H7/H7R MCUs is planned from EdgeTX v2.11 onwards.

Author: F7 should be removed entirely, we will not support those

* SDRAM with minimally 8MB

> * SD/microSD card slot or embedded SD NAND (e.g. XTX XTSD04G, minimally 512 MByte). Connectivity via SDIO mandatory

Reviewer: Connectivity should be via SDIO.

Reviewer 2: Mandatory is the correct word here for future designs.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <img src="https://c.a.segger.com/fileadmin/images/products/J-Trace/jtrace-pinout.png">

* USB-C device mode connection

>     * H7R radios must support Hi-Speed (480 MBit/s) USB

Reviewer: H7R radios should support USB 2.0 High-Speed (480 MBit/s).

* For radios with an internal module, lines to put the module into flashing mode to perform pass-through flashing
* Unused GPIO pins shall be connected with a 10k resistor either to GND or VCC. The initial hw revision of a radio shall have them tied to GND, further revision shall use one or multiple of those pins to mark different hw revision of the radio to allow auto detection of the radio version or variant.

### hardware design guidlines
* all high speed interfaces like Quad/Octo/Hexa SPI, SDRAM, USB and SDIO shall be length / time of flight equalised
  * relative timing constrains, e.g. for different SDRAM wires, shall be respected
* STM32H7 CPUs shall be used with Quad or Octo SPI flash that supports DDR and at least 100 MHz of DDR SPI clock speed

> * for connecting the Quad/Octp SPI flash and RAM the pins used on the evaluation boards shall be used

Reviewer: * for connecting the Quad/Octo SPI flash and RAM, the same I/O pins should be used as on the following ST evaluation boards:

Reviewer 2: Maybe a good idea to reference the user manual for these boards and page number the schematic is on? i.e. a random STM32 board, figure 69, page 101, https://www.st.com/content/ccc/resource/technical/document/user_manual/group0/48/5f/49/8e/5d/44/47/e3/DM00385071/files/DM00385071.pdf/jcr:content/translations/en.DM00385071.pdf

* I2C EEPROM
* Bluetooth module via UART
* IMU (e.g. LSM6DS33)
* I2C port expander
  * if port expanders are used for inputs, the interrupt output pin(s) of the port expander(s) shall be connected to an interrupt capable input pin of the MCU
* SpaceMouse module

---

## Black-and-white radios

### Mandatory hardware features (B/W)

> * MCU: STM32F4 with minimally 1 MB flash running at 168 MHz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* MCU: As of EdgeTX 2.10, STM32F4 with minimally 1 MB flash running at 168 MHz. From EdgeTX v2.11 onwards, STM32H562/563 will also be supported. STM32F based designs will not be accepted as of EdgeTX v3.0.
```

Reviewer: I suggest to explicitly add "New" to the last sentence, thus:
`New STM32F based designs will not be accepted as of EdgeTX v3.0.`

* I2C EEPROM
* Bluetooth module via UART
* IMU (e.g. LSM6DS33)

> * I2C port extender

Reviewer: * I2C port expanders

>   * if port extenders are used for inputs, the interrupt pin has to be connected to an interrupt capable pin of the MCU

Reviewer: * if port expanders are used for inputs, the interrupt output pin(s) of the port expander(s) should be connected to an interrupt capable input pin of the MCU

* SpaceMouse module

---

## Black-and-white radios

### Mandatory hardware features (B/W)

> * MCU: STM32F4 with minimally 1 MB flash running at 168 MHz

Reviewer: , whereas from EdgeTX v3 onwards, no new radios with STM32F MCUs will be supported.

>   * Support for STM32H562/563 will be available from EdgeTX v3 or v2.11

Reviewer: * From EdgeTX v2.11 onwards, STM32H562/563 microcontrollers will be supported.

* SD/microSD card slot or embedded SD NAND (e.g. XTX XTSD04G, minimally 512 MByte)

>   * Starting with STM32H5 all new radios must use SDIO to connect the storage

Reviewer: * New radios with STM32H5 microcontrollers, should connect the storage via SDIO.

Author: maybe "shall", but not "should"

* For radios with an internal module, lines to put the module into flashing mode to perform pass-through flashing
* Unused GPIO pins shall be connected with a 10k resistor either to GND or VCC. The initial hw revision of a radio shall have them tied to GND, further revision shall use one or multiple of those pins to mark different hw revision of the radio to allow auto detection of the radio version or variant.

### hardware design guidlines
* all high speed interfaces like Quad/Octo/Hexa SPI, SDRAM, USB and SDIO shall be length / time of flight equalised
* possible pin assignments can be found in the documentation of the evaluation board: NUCLEO-H563ZI
 
### Optional (B/W)
* Display backlight control via PWM - connection to hw-PWM capable pin on the MCU
* Gimbals with either analog, PWM (e.g. TLE4998P3), SPI ADC (e.g. ADS7952) or UART communication
* Switches as digital or analog inputs
* haptic vibrator, via binary or PWM output

> * support for additional key navigation input. Supported keys: Enter, Return, Page>, Page<, Up/Down, System, Model, Tele.

Reviewer: * support for additional key navigation input, via keys: Enter, Return, Page>, Page<, Up/Down, System, Model, Tele.

* I2C EEPROM
* Bluetooth module via UART
* IMU (e.g. LSM6DS33)

> * I2C port extender

Reviewer: * I2C port expanders

>   * if port extenders are used for inputs, the interrupt pin has to be connected to an interrupt capable pin of the MCU

Reviewer: * if port expanders are used for inputs, the interrupt output pin(s) of the port expander(s) should be connected to an interrupt capable input pin of the MCU

Author: shall be connected, this is not optional

---

## General Considerations

> * When the radio is equipped with flight mode button (6-Pos), those should be connected in a way that they can be used individually. To save pins for the illumination, LEDs with Neopixel interface can be used

Reviewer: We might need to reconsider the "individual" digital input requirement. Wiring the inputs via analog input saves I/O and works, the corresponding LEDs should be individually addressable from EdgeTX though.

Reviewer 2: Think this just needs examples of those options... i.e. single analog input using resistor ladder, I2C expander. BTW, Neopixel is Adafruit's name for the WS2812 single line serial protocol ;)

Reviewer 3: I would add something like (please apologise for the approximate english);
- switches whose state can be set by EdgeTX need to provide a visual feedback controllable by EdgeTX (led,...)

Reviewer: I like the suggestion, would add that this would be then appropriate only to switches that do have a visual feedback (that it would not be misunderstood that we require all switches to have a visual feedback).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When the radio is equipped with flight mode buttons (6POS / six position switch), they should be connected in a way that they can be used individually (i.e. as customisable switches in EdgeTX). In order to save MCU IO pins, this could be done using a single analog input and resistor ladder, or an I2C expander. These switches need to have visual feedback LEDs that can be controlled by the MCU. To save MCU IO pins, this can could be done using I2C expanders, or WS2812 (aka Neopixel) single serial line LEDs. 
```

Reviewer: One more thought - possibly we might not necessarily dictate explicitly here "6"-pos, but handle this way any switch with more than 3 positions (e.g. if a manufacturer wants to do a radio with flight mode switch other than 6 positions).

Reviewer 3: I think there are two rules there: 
- traditional 6POS need to be replaced by customisable switch version
- switches whose state can be set by EdgeTX, including but not limited to customisable switch  version of 6pos, need to provide a visual feedback controllable by EdgeTX (led,...)

Reviewer 3: Btw, I don't see how a single analog (been resistor ladder or else) could be used in that setup

Reviewer 2: Using a resistor ladder, you can have multiple buttons hooked to the one analog, and know which button is pressed via the specific voltage it's press triggers. You then do the physical to logical translation (groups, startup state, etc) you normally do for customisable switches. And light whichever led you need to based on the logical configuration. i.e.If you ignored the led on the emulated 6pos, you could use that as a customisable switch, no? The only problem there is actually that we have no control over the led (well, and no nice interrupt).

Reviewer 3: It also mean you can only push one button at a time, unless you try doggy analog to binary conversions that I think can only lead to issues

Reviewer: Not the case e.g. with Paladin EV stick end buttons - the output has 4 distinguishable voltage levels with resistor ladder - no button pressed, button A pressed, button B pressed and buttons A and B pressed simultanously.

Reviewer 3: Thats certainly fine for 2 buttons, more tricky for 6 or more as we have on 6pos (since we are talking flight mode selector scenario)

Reviewer 2: The real question there is how many buttons is it reasonable to expect to be pressed at one time, and what to do if more than that number are pressed. i.e. no different to a button matrix.  If you're saying that we should be able to detect all six or more buttons uniquely at once, then sure... sure there could be problems... but then how many fingers do you have, and who is flying the plane? 🤣

Reviewer 3: Probably 2 simultaneous are fine, but out of how many possible is where adc to binary becomes tricky
